it's not one of those things where you
wake up one morning and like today I
think I'll do Enterprise maybe
particularly because a board member
suggested you might want a bigger Tam or
higher growth rate that would not be the
signal in my view I think two good
signals are one your existing customer
Bas is pulling you up market so often
we're starting many folks in this room
selling into a startup those startups
mature and start to have more
sophisticated
requirements the other one is that you
start to get early wins in Enterprise
that are meaningful
so we actually had a term at stripe on
that in particular which was if you go
into to Enterprise you wanted to di the
whale not the fin a fin was like our
little derogatory term to me like you
didn't really get a legit workload at
that company so I think a lot of times
people will get a side project an
experimental business line The
Innovation lab and think you are in
Enterprise and you really aren't please
welcome Jean DT grosser CBO at stripe
and lindsy scra Co and former C ated
Checker it's good to be here with you
all it's saster I love saster also so
great to be here with Eugene we're going
to kick it off we have a lot to talk
about before that we're going to dive
into introductions and instead of
introducing ourselves Jean and I are
going to introduce each other because we
go way back so a little bit about Jean
she started working on Gmail at Google
right after Gmail launched in operations
and then in 2010 Jee moved to Google
Enterprise now known as Google Cloud to
help build out their SMB sales team for
APAC as well as the Americas and ran
that then in from there she went to
Dialpad which is a SAS communications
platform company and then from dpad she
went to stripe in 2016 where she was a
very early stripe she built out the
sales team in the Americas and just to
put that in perspective there were what
10 10 salespeople when she joined she
scaled it to hundreds and hundreds of
sellers built out many functions from
scratch including sdrs customer success
Solutions engineering
Architects and now Gan is the chief
business officer at stripe where she
runs all technology and financial
Partnerships as well as corporate
strategy so Jean excited to be here with
you today awesome thank you Lindsay
Lindsay was the second female to join
that group and one of the things I
remember immediately about her is how
anal itical she was she's a hardcore
operator and she also really cared
deeply about people so she and I hit it
off and basically have tracked each
other's careers since
then prior to Google Lindsay started at
AP Muller M where she was in a GM trap
doing all sorts of operating roles
around the world she joined the Google
workplace team where we were part of the
leadership team and built out a number
of functions there she ended up running
the entirety of GL Google Cloud for SMB
midmarket and startups so cross
workplace Google Cloud gcp
Etc and then she transitioned over to
Checker two years ago as it cro and
within short order expanded that to
become its coo and she runs the bulk of
the company's operations these days
similarly excited to we have here with
you love it all right so we're going to
take it off a lot of startups start
focusing and targeting other tech
companies so early adopter of Technology
this the early wedge in how they start
growing the company but then there
becomes a moment and like a second
chapter of sorts where one needs to
Pivot into an additional new segment
often up Market often Enterprise like
the Holy Grail of moving up Market to
Enterprise to unlock a lot of Tam a lot
of value up there often people get this
timing wrong more often than not
probably and it's really important to
understand the signal so let's talk
about that what have you seen in terms
of signals of when to move up Market
when to start tackling Enterprise yeah
so first of all I would say it's not one
of those things where you wake up one
morning and like today I think I'll do
Enterprise maybe particularly because a
board member suggested you might want a
bigger Tam or higher growth rate that
would not be the signal in my view I
think two good signals are one your
existing customer bases pulling you up
market so often we're starting many
folks in this room selling into a
startup those startups mature and start
to have more sophisticated
requirements the other one is that you
start to get early wins and Enterprise
that are
meaningful so we actually had a term at
stripe on that in particular which was
if you go into to Enterprise you wanted
to get the whale not the fin a Finn was
like our little derogatory term to me
like you didn't really get a legit
workload at that company so I think a
lot of times people will get a side
project an experimental business line be
Innovation lab and think you are an
Enterprise and you really aren't so for
stripe in that first camp this was back
in 2017 that we started our foray into
Enterprise and it was the Shopify the
lifts Square spaces were all growing up
bringing in adult CFOs contemplating
IPOs and so they had a bunch of Demands
and then on the other side we won
Amazon's amazon.com in Singapore so sure
not the US business but if you go down
in Singapore I think Bezos is going to
notice and so those were our signals and
what we did from there was look at all
of the requests we were getting from
these startups that were moving up
markets and try to understand the degree
to which we thought those were
generalizable to larger businesses in in
general and then similarly went really
deep on the Amazon like wins why did we
actually win why did they buy us and
like truly wrote that down the other
thing that we did that I think is key is
you have to understand what is your
ideal customer profile today where do
you just win constantly and why and then
with those three things we were
basically able to do like humanistic
look likee modeling not a fancy data
science model but just okay given those
qualities what's another sort of like
set of the market that's bigger than
those but looks almost exactly like
where we've already
Wun and as a result we're able to have a
really focused Enterprise strategy
rather than scatter shot of let's
contact everyone and see who bites and
traing a lot of road map schizophrenia
for R team absolutely yeah and and I
love that point on the signal of your
early customers pulling you up seeing as
they grow you need to be able to get
there with them at Checker our first
customer was door Dash over 10 years ago
a smaller company than it is now at like
A10 billion do run rate and as they grow
as lift grew we had the entire gig
economy as these players grew we had to
develop Enterprise strategies for them
but then also there's a somewhat
separate playbook for traditional
Enterprises and really thinking about
those two is both Enterprise but
different tactics often or different
product
strategies we've talked a little bit
about signals but just because you're
getting signals doesn't mean you're
actually going to do it well there's
definitely a graveyard of companies that
have tried to move up markets so what
are some of the things that have made
Checker more successful in your push
into
Enterprise yeah so so I would say the
very first thing is that you can't dip
your toe in like pilot Enterprise and
Checker years ago did this wrong so
there were all the signals Gan was
mentioning there our customers are
pulling us up a lot of demand and
interest even like closing some early of
more Innovative Enterprise logos and the
team at the time before I was there with
built a go to market sales engine for
Enterprise got a lot of traction talking
to customers demand pipeline but then as
they were solutioning the deals realized
we have some really major gaps in what
we need to deliver and the product road
map was not set up there was not product
capacity to engineering capacity to
figure out how to build and be agile to
be able to do to deliver what was needed
and so at that time they said we got to
pause on this we we have a ton of other
priorities doing too many things let's
retrench go outside of Enterprise and
very successful great momentum
and then now we have recommitted and as
a leadership team or seet we sat down
and said we're going to lock arms we're
going after this in a meaningful way and
it's not just go to market it is our
product team our engineering team we're
going to have dedicated people dedicated
capacity on the road map and it's been
incredibly successful in that way I
think the second thing I would say is to
your point earlier you really have to
focus you can't spray and prey you got
to figure out what are your icps or
verticals where you win and this can be
blamed through like the heuristic models
you mentioned you can look at down
market like the segment right below look
at your win rate by industry look at
your funnel conversion math by industry
and see hey where are you winning and
why are you winning where is there that
strong product Market fit so for Checker
it was Staffing retail manufacturing
Hospitality high volume hiring
Industries where we could add a ton of
value and very strong differentiation
and product Market fit and then within
those verticals you got to be all over
it so attending industry conferences not
just Tech conferences like retail
manufacturing go where they go and you
may have to manufacture some early logo
WIS whether it's doing a natural acts on
pricing that aren't necessarily
sustainable over the Long Haul and make
sure your sales teams are not trading
away logo rights you have to get those
logos to be able to have them as
referenceable customers and often it
takes one big Lighthouse logo in an
industry and then the Domino start to
fall and you start to be to be able to
go further so that's the focus and then
the third thing is I'd say customer
Obsession but with discernment and so by
that often in Tech and we saw this at
Google there's this perception that art
technology just amazing it's going to
transform everyone should stop the way
they're doing things and do things this
way I remember I if you remember this it
took like an act of Congress to get
product to build page numbers into the G
Suite portfolio for years no we don't
need page numbers and we just people
don't use those
anymore I think that there was an
evolution in learning no we have to
really learn and understand what are
core needs and the discernment part I
mention is as we're going into
Enterprise and seeing success a checker
we every deal we list what are product
blockers that are like product gaps that
are deal blockers and what are product
gaps that are simply nice to have for
the customers but not blockers and if
you can't get those two columns it's
going to be really hard because either
you're going to under develop and invest
or you're going to build every single
thing for One customer like to
completely bend your product road map so
that Nuance is really important I wanted
to reinforce the first point you made
because it was key for us it's stripe
and something I see a lot of companies
get wrong um which is the decision to
move up Market is not a go to market
decision it's a company decision so for
us at stripe when we started having
those early wins and saying okay I think
it's time I literally sat down with
Patrick our co-founder and was like all
right are we doing this and we
established a couple things one was a
lighthouse account list it was 30 names
that we all agreed to these ones are
going to be worth winning and worth
doing what it takes to win so that you
didn't have a scenario where sales went
out and talked to a company and thought
them interested but we actually weren't
going to be willing to do the work
the second was we established a
lighthouse engineering team it was small
talking like five people but five people
who had been at the company for a long
time knew how to get things done and
were really well respected and I brought
them into every single sales call that
we had so that they could develop
empathy for Enterprise needs and it not
just be oh sales isn't good at objection
handling so I really think that sort of
like this is a top down company push has
to be true in order be able to cross the
chasm into the second into that segment
at the
companies the second I would reinforce
is you're going to need different
functions and go to market um and so for
us when stripe was selling into
developers believe it or not when I
showed up to run the sales team we
didn't have a single sales engineer
solution solution architect and I was
shocked I was like how's this possible
we sell an API I need Technical
Resources and then you figure out stripe
had worldclass documentation our
prospects were were our own solution
Engineers we didn't it but as we moved
into Enterprise you're ripping something
out typically and there's a lot more
risk associated with that so we had to
really layer in solution Architects from
a pre-sale perspective and then your
integration Engineers to actually do
that migration and get things live but I
also want to reinforce there you need to
know what are the roles you need I feel
like people move into Enterprise and you
imediately say okay I need a one to one
strr to a ratio I need a CSM I need a
tam I need a 10 TLA of roles right so
thinking through which ones are right
for you and then lastly is you got to
have an aligned business plan for this
it's not going to print money overnight
so we put together a board level plan
with an operating model associated with
it we were clear about the payback
period we were clear about leading
indicators of how we would know that we
were tracking towards that outcome and
could course correct
accordingly but but another one that
people really struggle with is this is a
multi-year Endeavor before you actually
create an Enterprise flywheel love what
you said on the alignment and having
Engineers like on we have a certain
engineers and product books around every
single call joint at the hip and and
then the solutioning and solutions
engineering Solutions Architects that is
so critical before you close and sign a
deal to ensure it's solutioned
appropriately and it's so easy to to
sign on the line and then down the line
no one's happy if that's not working
well so I completely Echo that so you
talked about new roles adjusting the go
to market let's talk about pricing and
packaging and how we've talked about
this how that evolves as you go up
Market into Enterprise what are you
seeing at stripe what are you doing
differently yeah this was a big one for
us so stripe was always known for 29 and
30 right super simple pricing for snbs
turns out Enterprises don't love that a
lot of us I think start with simple
pricing models consumption based pay as
you go a lot of Founders love the purity
of that of I'm going to earn your
business every single day and
Enterprises like predictability they
also like a lot more modularity they
like more all aart and so we really had
to do a lot to unbundle our pricing for
Enterprise let them buy more subc
components and in some cases price
fundamentally differently that being
said we also then had to Think Through
Enterprises want to buy Solutions and so
how do you then repackage some of those
things into new bundles or solutions
that you can sell from an Enterprise
perspective so that's been a major
Journey for us as well you really have
to think about how is this buyer buying
today and map out and be able to at
least translate your pricing into how
they're doing it and as you're thinking
about commits up Market with Enterprises
it's really critical as well to make
sure your sales teams are incented and
comped according to that customer being
successful there can be a Nuance there
as well gone are the days of gross at
all
costs so let's talk about how to
actually do this efficiently are some of
the things you guys are focused on yeah
the money days as you all know are are
somewhat behind us and you see this fing
out just as context if you look at SAS
companies the amount that they're
spending on sales and marketing is a
percentage of Revenue this was as high
as over 50 55% in 2019 the peak of spend
free money investment growth at all
costs that's down to 30% in 2024 just
because it's not sustainable and and
investors won't tolerate that level of
lack of return
also if you think about payback period
you look at top quartile SAS companies
versus bottom quartile top quti have 3x
shorter payback period than the bottom
quartile and 7x higher valuation this is
really important now some of the things
wor thinking about or like how I think
about managing this first of all is
really getting crisp and clear on what
are the metrics you're going to be
looking at and getting alignment across
the entire company see CF sales
organization on those for us it's
payback period gross margin adjusted
payback period which takes into account
all the cost the cost of acquiring a
customer when are you getting that back
net of all cost to deliver the product
and then second is LTV CAC that can be
inflated because you can build out blow
up your LTV calculations very sensitive
un assumptions the payback period for us
is the key and then we've gone in and
looked at that what are our expectations
per Channel per segment and to Jean's
Point earlier for Enterprise that's
going to be longer and really getting
alignment up front on what are the early
signs of success you need to see and and
how do you build that over time you need
to be watching it closely and then what
we've done is break down for every
segment for every channel giving
visibility to my goto Market teams so
sales Marketing Solutions engineering
customer success operations we break
down for let's say Channel Partners or
SM mid-market sales what is the cost
breakdown how much of that is is SE how
much of that is sales CSM and so they're
feeling the tension and before asking
for another headcount or asking for
another overlay resource they're
managing themselves and acting like an
owner and we've gotten really creative
to say hey maybe we can scale more
instead of this ratio we can expand the
ratios to be more efficient and more
scalable and then holding people
accountable we look at this in every
single Revenue call I do every forecast
call we're seeing the metrics if we're
managing to them which is critical to to
allocate resources and make
decisions so I think that the number one
thing to get right is an operating model
so often you start with your top down we
10 million in AR from the sales team or
from this segment or whatever not enough
folks are building very granular bottom
up versions of what actually needs to be
true to hit that this is It's just
funnel math we all know it how many
leads do you need what's the conversion
rate going to be what's the average
opportunity size what's your win rate
how long does revenue take to ramp right
if you're in a consumption business it's
actually a a long funnel but you got to
build that and you got to to Lindsay's
Point build it per segment the key to
this actually is it gives you a
diagnostic either when things are going
well or poorly particularly As you move
up Market you you're going to have to
make some assumptions when we've moved
into Enterprise we were able to look at
that segment below Enterprise what what
was our historical performance and then
we also looked at external Market data
like on average what do you see in
Enterprise and for year one we just had
to make some reasonable assumptions but
then when we were deviating and we
definitely did we knew exactly where in
Stripes case actually it turned out that
we were doing a lot more deals but they
were smaller and higher velocity and
Enterprise in year one and so if you
don't do that then you don't know when
where to correct and where to
potentially double down if things are
going well um so that's that's my number
one is like massive spreadsheet well
understood again across cro CFO CEO and
something that you're reviewing on a
very regular basis exactly like tracking
that the other piece on efficient growth
that that I think is important to
underscore as well is you want your
teams and you want the math to be
looking at both costs and conversion
throughout the funnel and then also
maximizing the ACV of every deal and at
Google we were religious about looking
at average revenue per user are who for
every single customer we signed up for G
Suite or gcp how are we layering on
autons over time cuz that also can help
if you're seeing hey the the LTV C or
the payback is not working it could be
you got to get your costs really got to
tighten your Bel or it could be hey
let's think about what are we layering
on in the life cycle of the customer
either at point of sale or through
upsell down the line and then then that
kind of layering on is really important
as you think about your model your
operating model and then how to scale
yeah the same has been really true for
stripe so so our Enterprise customers on
average buy at least two products for
stripe so key for us to get efficiency
has actually been the growth of our
revenue and financial automation product
so stripe billing stripe tax R wck
etc those layer in really well and drive
up acds as Lindsay's
mentioned Lindsay I think you and I are
two very action oriented people so I
thought we might leave the audience with
two things that you can leave here and
maybe do differently so for you what
would be that one it's really
understanding the unit economics and the
math of your sales team making sure that
you are not underinvested or
overinvestigation
right and that you're tracking it
benchmarking it and holding the team
accountable to act as owners to drive
results and as another sort of modern C
I am going to double down on math and
reinforce oper Model A lot of you are
probably in planning periods right now
if you do not have aund line item
Bottoms Up spreadsheet supporting your
top- down Revenue model I think you will
be less effective in 2025 than you would
be otherwise so strongly encourage that
one
100% thank you everyone for coming great
to see standing room only and have a
lovely day at saster thank you